# Expense Tracker

This project—a budgeting and expense tracking app—allows you to practice
refactoring with Redux Toolkit. The app allows you to set budgets for
various categories, such as food and transportation, and track
transactions in those categories. It then sums your spending in each
category to calculate the amount of money that remains to be spent.

To help you to understand how the data of the application works,
consider an example of the Redux store’s state:

``` jsx
{
  budgets: [ 
    { category: 'housing', amount: 400 },
    { category: 'food', amount: 100 },
    ...
  ],
  transactions: {
    housing: [ 
      { 
        category: 'housing', 
        description: 'rent', 
        amount: 400, 
        id: 123 
      }
    ],
    food: [ 
      { 
        category: 'food', 
        description: 'groceries on 1/12/2021', 
        amount: 50, 
        id: 456 
      },
      { 
        category: 'food', 
        description: 'dinner on 1/16/2021', 
        amount: 12, 
        id: 789 
      },
    ]
  }
 
 
}
```

You will work primarily in **budgetsSlice.js** and
**transactionsSlice.js** where reducers and action creators are
currently programmed by hand. Your task will be to refactor this project
using a slice-based approach to produce the app’s actions and reducers.

Before you get started, spend some time using the app in its current
implementation to ensure you understand how it’s supposed to work. Set a
budget of \$300 for food, create a \$20 food transaction, and then check
the food budget again to see how much you have left to spend. As you
progress through the project, take note of the ways that Redux Toolkit
simplifies your code.

### Instructions

Mark the tasks as complete by checking them off

## Create a Budgets Slice

1\.

Without Redux Toolkit, you have to write all your action creators and
reducers by hand. Redux Toolkit’s
<a href="https://redux-toolkit.js.org/api/createSlice"
class="e14vpv2g1 gamut-xro1w8-ResetElement-Anchor-AnchorBase e1bhhzie0"
target="_blank" rel="noopener"><code
class="code__2rdF32qjRVp7mMVBHuPwDS">createSlice()</code></a> function
generates action creators and reducers for you based on the inputs you
give it.

Not only does `createSlice()` reduce the amount of code you have to
write by automatically generating action creators and reducers, it also
simplifies your reducers by allowing you to write mutating logic inside
your reducers.

At the top of **budgetsSlice.js**:

1.  Import `createSlice` from `@reduxjs/toolkit`.

2\.

Next, you are going to define a slice by calling `createSlice()` with a
configuration object containing the required `name`, `initialState`, and
`reducers` properties.

1.  Define a variable, `budgetsSlice`, and initialize it with a call to
    `createSlice()`, passing in an empty configuration object. Do this
    right after the line defining `initialState`.
2.  Slices are conventionally named for the resource whose state they
    manage. This slice manages budgets and should be named accordingly.
    To give the slice a name, add a `name` property to the configuration
    object and set it equal to `'budgets'`.
3.  Add an `initialState` property to the configuration object, and set
    it equal to the variable `initialState` that we’ve defined for you.
4.  Lastly, you’ll need to include a `reducers` property in the
    configurations object. For now, set it equal to an empty object.

3\.

In **budgetsSlice.js**, which we originally wrote without Redux Toolkit,
you’ll see an `editBudget()` action creator. Currently, the action
dispatched by that action creator will be processed in the
`'budgets/editBudget'` case of the `budgetsReducer()` we’ve provided.
Open **components/Budget.js** where you can see this action being
dispatched like so:

``` jsx
dispatch(editBudget({category: budget.category, amount: amount}))
```

`createSlice()` automatically generates action creators and action types
based on the case reducer functions we include in the `reducers`
property. Once we define an `editBudget` case reducer, we will be able
to delete our standalone action creators and reducers, and greatly
simplify our code in the process.

1.  Add an `editBudget` property to the `reducers` object passed to
    `createSlice()`.
2.  Set `editBudget` equal to a case reducer that receives two
    arguments—`state` and `action` . `action.payload` will have a
    `category` and `amount` property.
3.  `editBudget` should update the state by finding the budget object
    whose `.category` value matches `action.payload.category` and
    changing with the `.amount` value to `action.payload.amount`.

4\.

Now that you’ve implemented `budgetsSlice`, you’ll want to delete your
old code and clean up your exports.

1.  Delete the stand-alone `editBudget`. At the bottom of the file
    **budgetsSlice.js**, export the `editBudget` action creator
    generated by `createSlice()` and stored in `budgetsSlice`.
2.  Delete the stand-alone `budgetsReducer`, and update the
    `export default` statement to export the reducer generated by
    `createSlice()` and stored in `budgetsSlice`.

Once you’ve completed this task, you should be able to edit budgets and
see your changes reflected in the app.

## Create a Transactions Slice

5\.

Great work! Now that you’ve refactored the budgets slice with Redux
Toolkit, you should do the same to the transactions slice, which is
responsible for storing all of the user’s transactions organized by
category. The slice handles adding new transactions and deleting
existing transactions, and its state is an object structured like this:

``` jsx
transactions = {
  housing: [ 
    { 
      category: 'housing', 
      description: 'rent', 
      amount: 400, 
      id: 123 
    }
  ],
  food: [ 
    { 
      category: 'food', 
      description: 'groceries on 1/12/2021', 
      amount: 50, 
      id: 456 
    },
    { 
      category: 'food', 
      description: 'dinner on 1/16/2021', 
      amount: 12, 
      id: 789 
    },
  ]
}
```

In **transactionsSlice.js**:

1.  Import `createSlice` from `@reduxjs/toolkit`.

6\.

Next, you are going to define a slice by calling `createSlice()` with a
configuration object containing the required `name`, `initialState`, and
`reducers` properties.

1.  Define a variable, `transactionsSlice`, and initialize it with a
    call to `createSlice()`, passing in an empty configuration object.
2.  Add a `name` property to the configuration object and set it equal
    to `'transactions'`.
3.  Add an `initialState` property to the configuration object, and set
    it equal to the variable `initialState` that we’ve defined for you.
4.  Lastly, you’ll need to include a `reducers` property in the
    configurations object. For now, set it equal to an empty object.

7\.

Since we originally developed this project without Redux Toolkit, you’ll
see two stand-alone action creators: `addTransaction()` and
`deleteTransaction()`. Each of these action creators will receive an
`action.payload` value that is a transaction object like so:

``` jsx
transaction = {
  category: 'housing', 
  description: 'rent for January', 
  amount: 400, 
  id: 123
}
```

Open **components/TransactionForm.js** and **components/Transaction.js**
where you can see how `addTransaction()` and `deleteTransaction()` are
dispatched, respectively. Currently, the actions dispatched by these
action creators will be processed by the `transactionsReducer` we’ve
provided.

Your task is to replace these stand-alone action creators and the
reducer with case reducers defined in the object passed to
`createSlice()`.

1.  Add an `addTransaction` property to the `reducers` object passed to
    `createSlice()`.
2.  Set `addTransaction` equal to a case reducer that receives two
    arguments—`state` and `action`. It should add the new transaction
    object (`action.payload`) to the correct category’s transaction list
    in the transactions `state` object.
3.  Add a `deleteTransaction` property to the `reducers` object passed
    to `createSlice()`.
4.  Set `deleteTransaction` equal to a case reducer that receives two
    arguments—`state` and `action`. It should delete the old transaction
    (`action.payload`) from the correct category’s transaction list in
    the transactions `state` object.

8\.

Now that you’ve implemented `transactionsSlice`, you’ll want to delete
your old code and clean up your exports.

1.  Delete the stand-alone `addTransaction` and `deleteTransaction`, and
    export the `addTransaction` and `deleteTransaction` action creators
    generated by `createSlice()`and stored in `transactionsSlice`.
2.  Delete the stand-alone `transactionsReducer`, and update the
    `export default` statement to export the reducer generated by
    `createSlice()` and stored in `transactionsSlice`.

At this point, you should be able to add and delete transactions and see
your changes reflected in the transactions list as well as in the “Funds
Remaining” field for each budget.

### [Solution](https://datttrian-expense-tracker.netlify.app/) (Reference: [prince-t-asamoah](https://github.com/prince-t-asamoah/expense-tracker))
